
  Transcriber’s Notes

  Text printed in italics has been transcribed _between underscores_,
  bold face text =between equal signs=. Small capitals have been changed
  to ALL CAPITALS. ^A represents a superscript A.

  More Transcriber’s Notes may be found at the end of this text.




[Illustration: DEAN’S SIXPENNY NEW CHROMO PICTURE & TALE BOOKS.

the OLD OAK TREE

by

MISS MONCRIEFF

Emrik & Binger, Lith. 15 Holborn Viaduct.

DEAN & SON. 160^A FLEET STREET, LONDON E. C.

OR UNTEARABLE CLOTH--ONE SHILLING.]

[Illustration: Emrik & Binger, Lith. 15 Holborn Viaduct.]

[Illustration: THE OLD OAK TREE]

Once upon a time there was an OLD OAK TREE in a gentleman’s park. It
grew beside a river, and stretched out its long strong arms, covered
with thick green ivy, as if welcoming everybody to its shelter.

A number of animals took advantage of its invitations:

First, at the foot of it, lived Bunny the Rabbit, with Mrs. Bunny, his
wife, and a fine family of sixteen children. There they ran in and out,
cocking up their little white tails, and popping into their hole as
quick as lightning the moment they saw anybody coming.

Jerry, the Squirrel, who lived high up in the tree, used to look down
and pity Mr. Bunny very much; for he was so poor, had such a large
family, and not a single nut laid by for the winter! But Bunny knew
better; and when he, Mrs. Bunny, and the little gray Bunnies were
huddled together so warm on a winter’s night, he used to listen to the
wind, and say, “Poor Jerry! how cold it must be up there!” But Jerry
could wrap his tail round his neck like a boa, and fall sound asleep on
the tree-top.

[Illustration]

Below Jerry’s house, where the ivy was thickest, lived Cozie Cowl, the
Owl, with his wise nose, and his great yellow staring eyes. He kept a
singing-school at night, and when all the other birds were sleeping you
might hear Cozie Cowl and the Misses Cozie Cowl all singing, “Tu-whit!
Tu-who-o!”

Then, among the ivy was a Robin Redbreast, a pair of Blackbirds, and two
lovely Tomtits; there was also a noisy family of Jackdaws, Mr. and Mrs.
Ray by name, in a hole in the trunk, which they called “Heart of Oak
Hall;” and, highest of all, lived a quiet old fisherman, called
Longlegs, the Heron.

[Illustration]

Most peaceably they all lived together, always polite and
neighbourly. They sang their best songs; and the Squire used to look up
and say,--“Ah! there is no tree so full of music as the OLD OAK.”

[Illustration]

One day a pair of new-comers came to the Old Oak Tree, and began to
settle themselves and build their nest. Mr. and Mrs. Jay (for that was
their name) were most beautiful birds, with crests on their heads and
pretty blue feathers on their wings; but their voices were loud and
sharp, and they seemed to be always scolding.

They were full of curiosity about their neighbours, and peeped into
everybody’s house. “Why do you live down there, Mr. Bunny?” said Mrs.
Jay; “I’m sure your house must be damp, and unhealthy for the children.”

Then they attacked Cozie Cowl:--“If you would only keep decent hours,
and come out the proper time of day, Mr. Cozie Cowl, it would do you a
world of good.” And Cozie, with all his wisdom, was so silly as to
believe them, and came tumbling out of his hole in the ivy, looking so
foolish that the mischievous Jays laughed at him, and pecked at him till
he crept into his corner again.

“As for you, Jerry,” said Mrs. Jay, “I don’t believe you are a bit
comfortable up there. Why don’t you marry Miss Hedgehog, and set up
house decently?”

[Illustration]

And so these two naughty birds made everybody uncomfortable, and taught
those who had been contented before to despise their own houses and
lonely life; till at last, instead of sweet songs, there was nothing but
complaints and noises; and, loudest of all, the sharp harsh cries of Mr.
and Mrs. Jay were heard from the tree.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

One day, the Squire and his lady, with their children, came past: “What
disagreeable noise is that? Oh, I see now, it is the Jays in that
oak--what pretty birds!” “Very pretty, my dear,” said her husband, “but
insufferably noisy: we must get rid of them.” And before night a gun
went _bang!_ and again _bang!_ and down went Mr. Jay and Mrs. Jay, with
all their fine feathers. And thus was peace restored to the OLD OAK.

About this time, Jerry, who was a great favourite with everybody, took
to himself a nice little wife; and, in honour of the event, Mr. and Mrs.
Cozie Cowl determined to give a grand tea party. It was difficult to fix
upon a good hour, because, if it was during the daylight, Cozie Cowl
would be sure to fall asleep, and if it was at night, no one else would
be awake. So Mrs. Cozie, like a wise bird as she was, fixed on the
twilight hour, when the moon would rise soon and serve them for a lamp.

[Illustration]

What a nice feast she prepared for them! The best of nuts and acorns for
Jerry and his wee wife, beautiful dandelions for the Bunny family,
pretty speckled trout for Longlegs the Heron, grubs and grains for the
Jackdaws, and lovely fat worms for the Blackbird and Robin Redbreast;
while for Cozie himself she got the very thing in the world he liked
best--a particularly nasty dead mouse! Altogether there never was such a
merry party in the OLD OAK TREE.

They sat a long time talking of many things, and at last they began to
talk about their great neighbours in the big house hard by. “The
Squire’s gardener is the best of men,” said Robin Redbreast; “he has
been digging up worms for me since six o’clock this morning!” “But what
do you think of the lady herself?” said Bunny; “I heard her order him to
fill the flower-beds with carnations, my own favourite food!” and the
sixteen little Bunnies cocked up their long ears at the thought. “I
know,” said the Blackbird, “the Squire’s cherries are the best in the
country. I am so much obliged to him.” “Yes,” said the Jackdaw, “and the
people who have put up the telegraph wires for us to sit upon!”

[Illustration]

“My friends,” said Cozie, “you know nothing about it. I fly about by
night, and know more than you do. I heard the gardener ordered to shoot
the Blackbirds who ate the cherries; to set traps for the rabbits; and I
heard my lady say she would like to have you, Jerry, my boy, running
round the treadmill in her Squirrel-cage! But as for the telegraph
wires, _they_ must have been put up for us to sit upon!” At this point
Mrs. Cozie volunteered a song; on which all the birds said “Good-night”
in a desperate hurry.

[Illustration: Emrik & Binger, Lith. 15 Holborn Viaduct.]

Now, the Jackdaws were not pleasant birds to have for neighbours. They
were always grubbing and pecking in Heart of Oak Hall, till they made
the hole too large to be good for the tree. Then the river that flowed
beside it, worked away among its roots and loosened it; so one day, the
Squire, as he came past, said, “That tree must be cut down.”

[Illustration]

Bunny, with his long ears, heard this, and ran directly to tell Jerry,
who agreed with him that it was a great risk to remain; so did Blackbird
and Robin. The Water Rat recommended a nice clean lodging to the
Bunnies. Jerry and his wife betook themselves to the horse-chestnut
tree; whilst Cozie Cowl and all the little Cozies just waited till it
was dark enough for them to see, and then they too flew away to another
shelter.

But the Jackdaws would not be warned. “We have lived here always,” said
they, “and we are not going away now. This tree has stood for hundreds
of years, and it is likely to stand for a hundred more. You are always
so easily frightened, poor Bunny. Such a tree was never cut down in this
park, and never will be!”

But the Squire had given his orders, and the next morning the woodmen
set to work to fell the Old Oak. The Jackdaws then began to think there
might be some truth in Jerry’s report; but when the woodmen went away to
breakfast, and all was still again, they believed their own opinion once
more, and went out as usual to find a dinner for their young family.
Grubs were scarce that day, and it was late before they returned home,
as they thought; but they had no home now. The ground was littered with
splinters and broken branches. The Old Oak Tree was lying prostrate on
the grass, and a few black feathers were floating down the river.

[Illustration]




  POND’S EXTRACT

  _Cures by External Application_

  Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Hemorrhoids, Diarrhœa, Colic,
  and all Inflammatory Diseases.

  It controls all Bleedings Internal or External. It relieves all Aches
  and Pains.

  POND’S EXTRACT

  is invaluable for application to Cuts, Burns, Bruises, and Sprains,
  stopping pain and bleeding, reducing swelling and inflammation, and
  hastening healing. Once tried it will ever after be kept in the home.

  RECOMMENDED BY

  CHARLES LOWDER, M.D., Lansdown House, Ryde, Isle of Wight.

  G. F. MABERLY, M.R.C.S.

  DR. HERRING.

  [Illustration: RECOMMENDED BY PHYSICIANS]

  [Illustration: LANDSCAPE TRADE MARK.]

  [Illustration: SURGEONS AND DENTISTS]

  POND’S EXTRACT

  is applied in the same manner as Arnica, to which it is immensely
  superior. POND’S EXTRACT is harmless taken internally even by a child,
  while Arnica is an active poison and dangerous to keep in a family.

  RECOMMENDED BY

  DR. BERNARD, F.R.C.P.

  ARTHUR GUINESS, M.D., F.R.C.S.

  GEORGE CHEVERTON, F.C.S.

  &c., &c., &c.

  Sold by all Chemists at 13¹⁄₂d., 2s. 3d., 4s. 6d., and 8s. 6d. per
  Bottle.

  _See that you get the genuine, sold only in our Bottles with Landscape
  Trade Mark on outside Buff Wrapper._

  POND’S EXTRACT COMPANY OF LONDON, LIMITED,

  482, OXFORD STREET.

       *       *       *       *       *

  _ORDER OF ANY GROCER OR OILMAN._

  Best of all Sauces for STEAKS.

  Best of all Sauces for CHOPS.

  Best of all Sauces for FISH.

  [Illustration: _ORDER OF ANY GROCER OR OILMAN._

  “Chef” Sauce

  Creamy.

  _ORDER OF ANY GROCER OR OILMAN._]

  Best of all Sauces for SOUPS.

  Best of all Sauces for STEWS.

  Wholesale of Dowling & Son, Leadenhall Market, London.

       *       *       *       *       *

  _Over One Million and a Half of Kopf’s Consolidated Soups_

  [Illustration: TRADEMARK]

  _have been sent to the troops in Afghanistan and South Africa._

  =KOPF’S EXTRACT OF MEAT COMPANY, LIMITED=,
  5, AGAR STREET, CHARING CROSS, LONDON, W.C.

  First Prize Gold Medal obtained at the Sydney International
  Exhibition, 1879, for “Extracts of Meat and nutritious preparations
  generally.”

  =KOPF’S EXTRACT OF BEEF.=--The purest form of beef
  tea; eight to ten per cent. more nutritious than any other.

  =KOPF’S ESSENCE OF BEEF.=--Especially adapted for invalids
  who can take no other form of nourishment.

  =KOPF’S BEEF LOZENGES.=--Invaluable to those who have
  to fast long.

  =KOPF’S CONSOLIDATED SOUPS=, comprising Erbswurst or
  Pea Soup, Mulligatawny, Green Pea, Scotch Broth, Hotch
  Potch, &c.

  In tins, Ox Tail, Gravy, Mock Turtle, &c.

  =KOPF’S PREPARED MARROW=, from Best Beef Marrow
  Bones.

  =KOPF’S COMPRESSED VEGETABLES=, Preserving the properties
  of Fresh Vegetables.

  =KOPF’S CONSOLIDATED TEA AND COFFEE.=--With and
  without Milk and Sugar.

  =KOPF’S EXTRACT OF MEAT COMPANY, LIMITED=,
  5, AGAR STREET, CHARING CROSS.

       *       *       *       *       *


  CALL A

  [Illustration: Spade]

  A

  [Illustration: Spade]

  AND

  BRANSON’S COFFEE EXTRACT

  THE PERFECTION OF COFFEE.

  18 Cups of Coffee for 6d; No Chicory.

  FOR DAILY HOUSEHOLD USE.
  FOR THE SEA-SIDE.
  FOR THE COUNTRY.
  FOR OLD and YOUNG.
  FOR THE TRAVELLER BY SEA AND LAND.

  _It is cheaper than the ordinary Coffee, because there is no waste,
  and a single cup or more is made with equal facility. It is guaranteed
  pure and free from chicory._

  REFRESHING. EXHILARATING.
  BETTER THAN TEA.
  A MORE VALUABLE STIMULANT
  THAN ALCOHOL.

  “The Coffee Extract is pure. It is a valuable nervine
  stimulant.”--_British Medical Journal._

  _Sold in Bottles at 6d., 1s. & 2s. each, by all Grocers and Chemists._

       *       *       *       *       *


  THE ORIGINAL

  H. W. BRAND,

  SOLE LONDON ADDRESS--

  21, SACKVILLE STREET, PICCADILLY, W.

  ASK FOR H. W. BRAND’S

  RESTORATIVES FOR INVALIDS.

  ESSENCE OF BEEF,

  Consists solely of the juice of the finest Beef extracted by a gentle
  heat without the addition of water. It thus contains all the most
  stimulating portions of the meat, and has long been used and
  recommended by the medical profession in cases of nervous debility,
  enfeebled digestion, and great exhaustion.

  _Similar Essences are prepared from Veal, Mutton, Chicken, Turtle,
  &c._

  CONCENTRATED BEEF TEA

  Contains all the soluble ingredients of the best Beef, and is highly
  recommended by the most eminent of the medical profession.

  SAVORY MEAT LOZENGES.

  INTERNATIONAL =A1= SAUCE.

  The best and most generally used Sauce, excellent with Chops and
  Steaks, Cold Meats, &c.

  ZISNOZAKOUSKA

  ARMY AND NAVY RELISH.

  Very appétissant for breakfast or tea on a muffin or toast, or as a
  sandwich between well-buttered milk biscuits.

  _CAUTION.--Our Restoratives for Invalids are distinguished by bearing
  a Straw instead of a Green-coloured Label._

       *       *       *       *       *


  THOMAS PERRIN,

  WHOLESALE

  WINE & BRANDY MERCHANT,

  23, ROOD LANE, LONDON, E.C.

  Celebrated as an Importer of Wines and Spirits of undoubted
  genuineness and high quality. STRONGLY RECOMMENDS the undermentioned
  Wines and Spirits for their good value and guaranteed purity:--

                                                                Per doz.
  Fine Bordeaux Claret some time in bottle                        15s.
  Very Fine Mellow Dry Sherry                                     28s.
  Very Fine, rather full Sherry                                   28s.
  Fine Old Ruby Port many years in bottle                         42s.
  Rare Old-Fashioned Madeira, 13 years old, very soft and fine
  flavor                                                          42s.
  Very Superior Marsala, very old in bottle, very soft, free
  from spirit                                                     24s.
  Very Fine Old Sauterne                                          24s.
  Very Fine Old Chablis                                           24s.
  Very Fine Medium Dry Champagne, vintage 1874                    48s.
  Splendid Old Cognac, invaluable for medicinal uses, specially
  bottled in Cognac, of great age                                 63s.
  Very Fine Old Scotch Whisky, thoroughly matured                 42s.
  Very Fine Old Irish Whisky, thoroughly matured                  42s.

  ALL BOTTLES INCLUDED.

  _In addition to the above Specially Quoted Wines and Spirits adapted
  for Family Use, the Stock consists of Curious Old Sherries, Rare Old
  Vintage Ports of Celebrated Vintages, and other Wines and Spirits,
  quotations of which shall be forwarded on application._

       *       *       *       *       *


  OLDRIDGE’S BALM OF COLUMBIA

  PREVENTS BALDNESS

  AND THE HAIR TURNING GREY.

  When used for Children forms the Basis of a =MAGNIFICENT HEAD OF
  HAIR.=

  =STRENGTHENS WEAK HAIR.=

  Causes Eyebrows, Whiskers, and Mustachios to grow freely.

  SOLD EVERYWHERE =3s. 6d., 6s., and 11s.=

  WHOLESALE AND RETAIL FROM 22, WELLINGTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

  _ESTABLISHED SIXTY YEARS._

       *       *       *       *       *


  SEVEN PRIZE MEDALS AWARDED.

  GOODALL’S HOUSEHOLD SPECIALITIES.

  =GOODALL’S YORKSHIRE RELISH=
  THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE IN THE WORLD.
  “Makes the plainest viands palatable.”
  _Bottles, 6d., 1s. and 2s. each._

  =GOODALL’S BAKING POWDER=
  THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
  “Pastry without Butter, beautiful Light Bread without Yeast.”
  _1d. Packets; 6d., 1s., 2s. and 5s. Tins._

  =GOODALL’S QUININE WINE=
  THE BEST TONIC YET INTRODUCED
  “For Indigestion, Loss of Appetite, and restoring Invalids to Vigour.”
  _Bottles, 1s., 1s. 1¹⁄₂d., 2s. and 2s. 3d. each._

  =GOODALL’S CUSTARD POWDER=
  MAKES DELICIOUS CUSTARDS WITHOUT EGGS, AND
  AT HALF PRICE.
  _In Boxes, 6d. and 1s. each._

  =GOODALL’S GINGER BEER POWDER=
  MAKES THREE GALLONS OF THE BEST GINGER
  BEER IN THE WORLD FOR 3d.
  _In Packets, 3d. and 6d. each._

  =GOODALL’S MUSHROOM KETCHUP=
  RECOMMENDED TO ALL TRUE LOVERS OF
  THE PURE MUSHROOM.
  _In Bottles at 6d., 1s., and 2s. each._

  =GOODALL’S EGG POWDER=
  ONE PENNY PACKET WILL GO AS FAR AS FOUR EGGS.
  “Its action resembles that of the Egg in every particular.”
  _In 1d. Packets; 6d. and 1s. Tins._

  =GOODALL’S BLANCMANGE POWDER=
  MOST DELICIOUS BLANCMANGES IN A FEW
  MINUTES.
  _In Boxes, 6d. and 1s. each._

  =GOODALL’S BRUNSWICK BLACK=
  FOR PAINTING STOVES, GRATES, IRON, TIN, &c.
  _In 6d. and 1s. Bottles._

  Sold by Grocers, Chemists, Patent Medicine Dealers, Oilmen, &c.
  _Proprietors_: =GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS.=

       *       *       *       *       *


  BRAGG’S

  VEGETABLE CHARCOAL,

  OR

  _PURE CARBON BISCUITS_.

  A NUTRITIOUS, PLEASANT, AND HEALTHFUL DIET,

  Which has produced great benefit and positive relief to thousands of
  sufferers from Indigestion, Bile, Acidity, Foul Breath, Dyspepsia,
  Heartburn, Worms, &c. at this season of the year; is now strongly
  recommended as a relief, if not a preventative, of Diarrhœa and other
  Choleraic Disorders. There is a medical testimony to its beneficial
  effects in those complaints.

  Worms in Children are speedily eradicated, from the fact that the
  Charcoal destroys the food of the Worms.

  _Sold in Tins, 1s., 2s., 4s., and 8s. each, by all Chemists, and by
  the Manufacturer_,

  J. L. BRAGG,
  14 (late 2), Wigmore Street, Cavendish Square.

       *       *       *       *       *


  MISS EMILY FAITHFUL,

  In the _Victoria Magazine_ of December, 1879,

  SAYS:--

  “_It is with the utmost confidence that we recommend this excellent
  preparation_,

  [CROSBY’S VITALIZED PHOSPHATES.]

  _Those engaged in brain work would be saved from the fatal resort to
  chloral and other destructive stimulants if they would have recourse
  to a remedy so simple and efficacious._”

  It is a preparation prepared according to DR. PERCY’S Formula, and is
  essentially a brain and nerve restorer, much in use among the upper
  classes of society, and will be found of inestimable value in the
  deficient mental and bodily growth of =CHILDREN=, and in the lassitude
  and sleeplessness of debilitated =WOMEN=, and in the overtaxed
  secretion of Nursing Mothers.

  Physicians alone have prescribed 157,780 bottles as pleasant to take
  and =FREE FROM ALL DANGER=.

  _Sold by every Chemist, price 3/9 per Bottle (containing 44 adult
  doses) or POST FREE from_ F. CROSBY, 137A, Strand, London, _upon
  receipt of Stamps or P. O. O._


  Send for a descriptive pamphlet, containing high-class testimonials,
  which will be sent to you post free.

       *       *       *       *       *


  DEAN’S Sixpenny new Chromo

  TOY TALE BOOKS.

  [Illustration]

  QUARTO SIZE.

  1--=THE BRIGHT SHILLING=, by E. N. MARKS.

  2--=PHILLIP and the ROBIN=, by ROBERT EDGAR.

  3--=ODD RHYMES=, by E. O. A.

  4--=THE OLD OAK TREE=, by Miss MONCRIEFF.

  5--=THE RIDE TO BRENTWOOD=, by T. BURROUGHS.

  _The above are uniform with_ THIS _Book, viz.--Five pages of Plates in
  chromo colours and Tales to match. Illustrated with Etchings._

  DEAN’S ‘PINAFORE’

  Toy Books,

  SIXPENCE EACH. Printed in Chromo Litho.

  1--=Pinafore Rhymes--Indoor Scenes=, by E. M. C. VAUGHAN.

  2--=Pinafore Rhymes--Outdoor Scenes=, by E. M. C. VAUGHAN.

  3--=Oh! Come to the Window!= By E. O. A.

  4--=Good Morning and Good Night.= By E. O. A.

  5--=Little May’s Picture Book.= By Miss CRAWFORD.

  [Illustration: _DEAN’S_

  Living Picture Nursery Rhymes

  _Price 1/6 strongly bound._

  New Living Pictures in Oil Colours.]

  DEAN’S ONE SHILLING

  Embossed or Raised Relief

  _PICTURE TOY BOOKS_.

  [Illustration]

  Each with six beautiful Plates in chromo-lithography, four of which,
  with Cover, are in Raised Relief; there is also a well-told tale, with
  about twenty illustrations interspersed with the Text.

  1--=Lady Tabitha’s Morning Concert.= By E. O. A.

  2--=Simple Verses on our Dumb Friends.= By J. E. C. F.

  3--=The Chickens’ Garden Party.= By E. O. A.

  4--=The Little Birds who went out to see the World.= By E. M. C.
  VAUGHAN.

  5--=The Kitten’s Misfortunes.= By E. O. A.

  6--=Violet’s Birthday Fancy Ball.= By E. O. A.

  DEAN’S NOVEL

  Changing Panoramic Pantomime

  _Toy Books_.

  One Shilling Each.

  QUARTO SIZE,

  1--Aladdin and Lamp.

  2--Sleeping Beauty.

  3--Cinderella.

  4--Puss in Boots.

  5--Blue Beard.

  6--Whittington.

  7--Ali Baba.

  8--Beauty & Beast.

  Nos. one to eight have Pantomime Transformation Scenes.

  OBLONG SIZE,

  1--Johnny Gilpin.

  2--Daddy’s gone a-hunting.

  3--Alas! Cock Robin.

  4--Queen of Hearts.

  [Illustration]


  LONDON: DEAN & SON, PUBLISHERS, 160a, FLEET STREET, E.C.




  Transcriber’s Notes


  Some minor obvious errors and inconsistencies have been corrected
  silently.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Old Oak Tree, by Miss Moncrieff

